[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: And as a more appropriate
live demo, let me show you in our final
few minutes together,
some products which are using web peer.
I need one volunteer to raise their hand.
Okay, well I'm going to type
in frontendmasters here.
And I'm gonna join this thing, which
allows me to share my video and audio.
I want you to go to
talky.io/frontendmaster.
I didn't put the s on the end,
so just frontendmaster.
Yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: Talky.io
is a service that's built
by a company called &yet.
They're a leader in peer to
peer WebRTC technology, and
this is a completely free
web conferencing service.
Totally encrypted.
Not only does it allow you to
share your video and audio, but
they just recently added
in screen cast sharing.
So if you're in Chrome, you can share
your screen against somebody else.
Is it popping up for you?
>> Speaker 2: I've used this tool before
actually.
>> [SOUND]
>> Kyle Simpson: There we go.
I got somebody else to add in.
There we go.
I'm better turn down the audio.
Now you can see that the two of us,
you can connect with your grandma on
the other side of the world,
completely for free.
Totally through web technology and
there's no middleman, because now
that we've been in establishing peer
to peer connection now we're talking.
So now we've got three
of us in the same thing.
So it's a lot like Google Hangouts,
except it's completely free and
there's no evil corporation in the middle.
All right.
So just a couple of other quick
things to point out to you.
Things that are being built on
peer to peer data channels.
There's a service that was built.
By a group of researchers
at MIT called PeerServer.
It's literally exactly
what it sounds like.
You spin up a web server
inside of your browser and
you serve up web pages to
other people that are nearby.
So imagine you and your company go for
a week offsite team meeting and
you wanna spin up a Wiki Server for
everybody to collaborate during the week.
Well, one of you spins it
up on your laptop, and
the rest of the people on the team just
connect directly to that system and
you don't need to stick all of your
work files out on some outer server.
Another thing,
this actually is really cool,
and might blow your mind a little bit.
This is a service that started up as kind
of an interesting thing but PeerCDN,
what they did Is they built a service
that allows you to put a script tag
in your page, and it hijacks your page and
any of the places in the page where you're
loading resources from a CDN location,
like from the Google CDN or whatever.
What it does,
is instead of loading them from the CDN,
it attempts in the background to
establish a peer to peer connection
with somebody else who's also
on the site at that moment.
And if they are on the site and
they've already downloaded the files,
it sends you those files over the peer to
peer connection rather than
through the bandwidth connection.
So as a provider of a site.
You have the ability to serve up less
bandwidth, which means it's gonna save you
costs because you're not paying for
CDN bandwidth.
And also they proved,
that it was in general, much quicker for
users to get files from their
peers than from some CDN.
And it did it completely in the background
without you even knowing that it was
happening and if it failed to download it.
It fell back to the normal loading.
And so that sounds like the sort of hack
that nobody could actually pull off but
they did it so
well that Yahoo acquired them few a few
months ago, so that's pretty cool.
It's a kinda a big success story for
these peer to peer technologies.
There is a sharefest.me, [COUGH]
this is exactly what it sounds like,
a completely secured anonymous
instant file sharing
peer to peer,
without anybody in the middle.
You wanna drop an MP3 file to your
grandma, tell her to go to this site
exactly like you do with talk, tell her to
go to this site, you drop a file in there,
bam, it shows up on her computer and
vice versa.
Using the peer to peer data connection.
And there's lots and lots of others.
I could spend lots and lots of extra
time talking about the capabilities.
We're not even beginning
to scratch the surface
of what peer to peer data connections are
going to give us in terms of a different
way of doing the web than
we've ever done before.
So I'm really excited about that.
I'm excited about the performance
benefits, I'm excited about
the security and the privacy benefits that
we're gonna get from the peer to peer web.
But it's a web that we have to build.
It's a web that everybody in
this room has to help us build.
So if we sit around and
we say, just I'm worried about
getting rounded corners into my app,
and sit five years in the past, somebody
else is gonna be making the decision.
It's probably going to be some evil
corporation that none of us like,
that makes the decisions for
the future of this technology.
So, I would implore you, if you don't
get anything else out of today,
start experimenting with this technology.
Start experimenting with peer-to-peer
technology, use the frameworks and
things that are out there, and
pushing back on this stuff,
because we are in a position to form the
next major inflection point of the web.
And it's gonna open up a whole new
world of possibilities that we
weren't capable of doing before.
So, hopefully, you come away from today
with a lot more confidence about where
to start with node, about where to start
with hacking up command line tools or
building little web things.
The very first node program that
I ever built several years back,
I was working at that game company.
And we needed a tool to essentially,
it wasn't really load testing,
but we needed a tool to test whether or
not the bingo game was capable
of handling 5,000 concurrent
players in the same bingo game.
Was the game logic actually correct
to handle all those players and
calling things?
And so I actually wrote a node.js bot that
would spin up 5,000 instances of itself.
It knew the rules of the game, in terms
of being served up random numbers, and
looking for bingo, and
calling out bingo and stuff.
And these bots would play
against our game server
in real time to try to test whether or
not the server was written correctly.
So the possibilities for
what you can do with node are endless.
They're really as limited as you
are willing to start experimenting and
I hope you come away from today
with the confidence that it's
time to get experimenting,
it's time to start pushing on that stuff.
I hope I've given you lots of
different ways to think about it,
different kinds of conversations
that you can have with your bosses.
It's been a true honor to give this
workshop over the last couple of days.
Hope you've learned a lot of great things,
I hope you'll give us feedback and I'll be
giving this workshop many more times, help
me get feedback to help me make it better.
And again I wanna remind you.
I'll go back to my slide
as my finishing thing.
I wanna remind you that as an open
ended invitation to all of my
attendees of any workshop from here
on out, if you have any thoughts or
questions six months from now you're
going back over the exercises and
you have a question,
feel free to reach out.
There are lots of ways to get
in contact with me online.
I appreciate your time very much.
It's been an honor being here.
You guys have a good evening.